# Prime Radiant 

≀ :: ⊙ -> ⊙        -- (radiant) number (wave, vibration, ...)
⊙ :: ∅ -> ≀        -- radiant (particle, free monad, string, source of waves, ...)

∂ :: ≀ -> ≀        -- prime (differentiation, difraction, measurement)
∂ α = λΩ. ∮ Ω α

∮ :: ⊙ -> ≀ -> ⊙   -- observation (integration, exploring possibilities)
∮ Ω α = α Ω

{α, Ω} = ∂α Ω      -- anti-commutator
[α, Ω] = ∮ Ω ∂α    -- commutator

-- ≀ and ⊙ are adjunct, a structural emergence generated by ∮:
≀ ⊣ ⊙ 
with adjuction error ε = [α∊≀, Ω∊⊙]

-- Symmetry operators
ι_1 = { ∂ | ∀α. ∂α = α }
ι_2 = { ∂ | ∀α. ∂^2 α = α }
...
ι_n = { ∂ | ∀α. ∂^n α = α }   -- intuition: ι_n corresponds to { e^(i t pi/n) | t ∊ [0, n) } 

-- Number tower
ρ_1 = { ∂^i α | ∀i, α }    = Π   -- (radiant) primes
ρ_2 = { ∂^(2i) α | ∀i, α } = Ζ   -- (radiant) integers
...
ρ_n = { ∂^(ni) α | ∀i, α }

-- Density operator
σ(i, j) = card(ρ_i) / card(ρ_j)
  = lcm(i, j) for i <= j
  = 1 / lcm(i, j) for i > j


Theorem: Π is the highest "countable/computable" cardinality set of fixed points of ∮ Ω.
Proof: From construction, Π is the largest ρ set. Q.E.D.

Theorem:
σ(i, j)
  = lcm(i, j) for i <= j
  = 1 / lcm(i, j) for i > j

Proof: Trivial. Q.E.D.

 
Theorem:
ρ_1 = Π         ~ subset of all primes in natural numbers
ρ_2 = Ζ         ~ integers, "gaps between (radiant) primes" (applying ι_1 gives "sign/gradient")
ρ_3             ~ rational numbers, "gaps between integers" (applying ι_2 gives "sign/gradient")
...
ρ_ω             ~ real numbers
ρ_{any surreal} ~ set with corresponding cardinality

Sketch of proof:

Special case: 

primes -> Π: 
  n-th prime => ∂^n α
Π -> primes:
  ∂^n α => n-th prime

Works, because both ρ and Primes are enumerable sets.

integers -> Ζ:
  n 
  => ∂^2  α       for n = 0
  => ∂^(4n) α     for n > 0
  => ∂^(4n + 2) α for n < 0

Ζ -> integers:
  ∂^2n α
  => n            for n = 1
  => n / 4        for n divisible by 4
  => (n - 2) / 4  for n not divisible by 4

We do say that the arrows preserve ordering (obviously they don't), but since both primes and natural numbers are enumerable/countable, we have card(N) + card(P) = card(N) = card(P) = card(ρ) = card(ζ) = card(ρ) + card(ζ).  

General case:
- Finite: identical principle to N <-> ζ 
- before reaching surreals: Dedekind cuts. 
- transfinite induction afterwards (this could actually work all the way to the base -- but this needs the most rigor)

Q.E.D. Sketched.

---

Theorem: (Riemann Hypothesis in the Prime Radiant system)
{α, Ω} = [α, Ω]

π ∊ Π are the the only "countable/constructibe/computable radiant numbers" that satisfy {α, Ω} = [α, Ω]

Sketch of proof:

Identity:
{π, Ω} = ∂π Ω = ∂^(n+1) α Ω = (λΩ. ∮ Ω α)^(n+1) Ω = (λΩ. ∮ Ω α)^n ((λΩ. ∮ Ω α) Ω) = (λΩ. ∮ Ω α)^n (∮ Ω α) = π (∮ Ω α)
[π, Ω] = ∮ Ω ∂π = ∂π Ω = π (∮ Ω α)

Non idetity:
impossible, because as shown above Π is the largest constructible set of numbers.

Loose Correspondence to integer domain:: 
In the Zeta function, the zeros lie on 1/2 because that is the only place where the "Diffraction" of the Prime sequence doesn't blow up or vanish. In the prime radiant system, it is the "balance between ∮ and ∂".

the Π contains all the "first order differentials ∂ applied to the 'current alpha'". This corresponds to 180° rotation -- half circle, e^(iπ). Applying this delta again gets us to the "origin".

Q.E.D.